How the Madrid System Works
The International Trademark Registration Process
Stage 1 – Application through your National or Regional IP Office (Office of origin)
Before you can file an international application, you need to have already registered, or have filed an application, in your “home” IP office. The registration or application is known as the basic mark. You then need to submit your international application through this same IP Office, which will certify and forward it to WIPO.

Stage 2 – Formal examination by WIPO
WIPO only conducts a formal examination of your international application. Once approved, your mark is recorded in the International Register and published in the WIPO Gazette of International Marks. WIPO will then send you a certificate of your international registration and notify the IP Offices in all the territories where you wish to have your mark protected.

It is important to note that the scope of protection of an international registration is not known at this stage in the process.It is only determined after substantive examination and decision by the IP Offices in the territories in which you seek protection, as outlined in Stage 3.

Stage 3 – Substantive examination by National or Regional IP Offices (Office of the designated Contracting Party)
The IP Offices of the territories where you want to protect your mark will make a decision within the applicable time limit (12 or 18 months) in accordance with their legislation. WIPO will record the decisions of the IP Offices in the International Register and then notify you.

If an IP Office refuses to protect your mark, either totally or partially, this decision will not affect the decisions of other IP Offices. You can contest a refusal decision directly before the IP Office concerned in accordance with its legislation. If an IP Office accepts to protect your mark, it will issue a statement of grant of protection.

The international registration of your mark is valid for 10 years. You can renew the registration at the end of each 10-year period directly with WIPO with effect in the designated Contracting Parties concerned.

How to Search Before Filing

Before filing an international application through the Madrid System, you should search to find out if identical or similar marks already exist (or are pending) in your target markets.

Use this guide to find out how to search WIPO’s Global Brand Database before filing your application, and how to locate the trademark registers of national and regional trademark Offices.

Searching existing trademarks is a necessary first step. If your trademark infringes on another person’s IP rights or doesn’t comply with local laws, you may not be able to register it.

WIPO and national/regional IP Offices provide databases that can help you find out if a mark similar to yours is already in use for the same or related goods and services.

Get started with your search using WIPO’s Global Brand Database. Learn more.

WIPO's Global Brand Database enables you to search for trademarks registered under the Madrid System, Appellations of Origin registered under the Lisbon System, and Emblems protected under the Paris Convention 6ter. A number of national trademark collections are also included.

Through the Global Brand Database you can:

Conduct one search covering multiple sources simultaneously
Discover similar or identical word marks using a variety of search features including Boolean, proximity, word-stem, phonetic and “fuzzy” search features
Find similar or identical image marks using the search by image function
Although the Global Brand Database covers a number of large trademark collections, it does not include trademarks filed directly (i.e., outside the Madrid System) with a number of Contracting Parties. It may be prudent to also search the registers of national/regional IP Offices.

The databases or registers of national/regional IP Offices provide records of trademarks filed and registered in those offices. WIPO maintains information on Contracting Parties (members) of the Madrid System, including links to IP Office websites. Follow these links to find national/regional registers.

Remember that these Registers are not managed by WIPO and may be in national languages other than the three official languages of the Madrid System - English, French and Spanish.

Discovering an identical or similar mark prior to filing may be preferable to finding out afterwards. This knowledge will enable you to make appropriate filing decisions. It is important to determine if the identical or similar mark:

is for the same or related goods and/or services
is a live application or registration
If the identical or similar mark is for unrelated goods and/or services, you may decide to proceed with your application. Similarly, if the application has lapsed or the registration has expired, you may also wish to proceed.

Of course, you may also elect to proceed with your application even if there is an earlier application or registered mark in a Contracting Party of interest for the same or related goods and/or services. You should be aware that in such a case a provisional refusal may be raised by the concerned Office of a designated Contracting Party, on the basis that the mark conflicts with an earlier pending or registered mark. There are a number of ways to overcome this type of refusal, but a local representative in the Contracting Party may be necessary to respond to the provisional refusal.

Remember – If you need assistance to search prior to filing, or advice on strategies to avoid conflicts with already existing marks, you can consult a trademark attorney, agent or lawyer in your country or in the country of interest. National/regional IP Offices usually maintain lists of registered attorneys.

Article 6ter
Article 6ter of the Paris Convention protects the flags and emblems of states that are party to the Paris Convention, as well as the names and emblems of international intergovernmental organizations (IGOs) against unauthorized registration and use as trademarks.

Article 6ter applies to all states which are party to the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property. The protection granted by Article 6ter is also extended to the names and emblems of IGOs whose members include at least one country of the Paris Union.

General Information on Article 6ter
Article 6ter of the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property of 1883 (1967 Stockholm Act) was introduced into the Paris Convention by the Revision Conference of the Hague in 1925. It underwent some minor modifications, as to form, at the Revision Conference of London in 1934, and was more thoroughly revised by the Revision Conference of Lisbon in 1958.

The purpose of Article 6ter is to protect armorial bearings, flags and other State emblems of the States party to the Paris Convention as well as official signs and hallmarks indicating control and warranty adopted by them.  This protection was extended to armorial bearings, flags, other emblems, abbreviations and names of international intergovernmental organizations by the Revision Conference of Lisbon in 1958.

Communication procedure
Any emblem or other official sign mentioned above for which a State party to the Paris Convention or an international intergovernmental organization wishes to obtain protection has to be communicated to the International Bureau of WIPO, which will then communicate it to the other States party to the Paris Convention.

Semi-annual publication
The Paris Union Assembly, on the occasion of its 40th Session, which took place in Geneva from September 22 to October 1, 2008, based on the recommendation of the Standing Committee on the Law of Trademarks, Industrial Designs and Geographical Indications, decided to modernize the Article 6ter communication procedure through the introduction of electronic means of communication.

Under the revised communication procedure, individual communications of signs for which protection under Article 6ter is requested by States and IGOs are replaced by a periodical electronic publication in the Article 6ter Express database. The nature of the signs concerned as well as the entity (State or IGO) having requested their protection, is published, in English and French, together with the individual reproductions of the signs concerned.

The electronic publication is made on a semi-annual basis, on the last working day of the months of March and September, respectively, according to the WIPO calendar, starting in March 2009. A link to the most recent communications is inserted into the database, which indicates the communications that were received by the International Bureau during the six months previous to the publication. The date of publication is considered to constitute the date of receipt of the communication by individual States party to the Paris Convention and any other party bound to apply Article 6ter of the Paris Convention.

Consequently, the time periods provided for in Article 6ter(4) and (6) of the Paris Convention are calculated as of that date of publication for all receiving States party to the Paris Convention. By consequence, this date is identical for States concerned.

Objection
may, within a period of twelve months from the date of publication of that communication, transmit its objections, if any, through the intermediary of the International Bureau, to the State or international intergovernmental organization at the request of which the communication was made.

Scope of protection
The protection offered by Article 6ter to any emblem or other official signs mentioned above, is not of a general nature. The purpose of Article 6ter is to prohibit the registration and use of trademarks which are identical to, or present a certain similarity with the above–mentioned emblems or official signs.

Article 6ter is only applicable to trademarks and does not oblige States party to the Paris Convention to refuse or to invalidate the registration, and to prohibit use of State emblems or other official signs as a service mark or as an element of a service mark. States are nevertheless free to do so, and under Article 16 of the Trademark Law Treaty (TLT) and Article 16 of the Singapore Treaty on the Law of Trademarks, States party to those Treaties are obliged to provide Article 6ter protection against registration or use as service marks.

Protected signs
The list of the items which can be the subject of a communication under Article 6ter of the Paris Convention, at the request of a State party to that Convention comprises: armorial bearings, flags and other State emblems, as well as official signs and hallmarks indicating control and warranty adopted by the State itself. The expression "other State emblems" is rather vague. It is generally understood as referring to any emblems constituting the symbol of the sovereignty of a State. A State emblem frequently contains heraldic elements, such as a lion, an eagle, the sun.

It is to be noted that the intention of the Revision Conference of the Hague, in 1925, was to include in the protection of State emblems the escutcheons of reigning Houses, as well as emblems of States included in a Federative State which is party to the Paris Convention. However, it was not intended to include emblems of lower public bodies.

The purpose of official signs and hallmarks indicating control and warranty is to certify that a State or an organization duly appointed by a State to that effect has checked that certain goods meet specific standards or have a given level of quality. Official signs and hallmarks indicating control and warranty exist in several States with respect to precious metals or products such as butter, cheese, meat, electrical equipment, etc. In principle, officials signs and hallmarks indicating control and warranty may also apply to services, for instance those relating to education, tourism, etc.

The protection as an official sign indicating control and warranty is more limited than a protection as a State emblem. Article 6ter(2) provides that such protection "shall apply solely in cases where the marks in which they are incorporated are intended to be used on goods of the same or similar kind." Under Article 16 of the TLT, this provision extends to services.

The protection afforded by Article 6ter was extended by the Revision Conference of Lisbon in 1958, not only to armorial bearings, flags and other emblems, but also to names, and abbreviations of such names of intergovernmental organizations of which one or more States party to the Paris Convention are members. However, the protection under Article 6ter did not extend to armorial bearings, flags, other emblems, names and abbreviations of intergovernmental organizations which are already the subject of international agreements in force, intended to ensure their protection, such as the Geneva Convention for the amelioration of the condition of the wounded and sick in armed forces, of August 12, 1949, Article 44 of which protects the emblems of the Red Cross on a white ground, the words "Red Cross" or "Geneva Cross, and analogous emblems."

Guidelines
In order to clarify certain aspects of the Article 6ter(1)(b) and (3)(b), the Assembly of the Paris Union adopted the Guidelines for the Interpretation of Article 6ter(1)(b) and (3)(b) in 1992.

In application of these Guidelines, any program or institution established by an international intergovernmental organization, and any convention constituting an international treaty may, under certain conditions, benefit from the protection granted by Article 6ter(1)(b) of the Paris Convention.